.TH TIMEXDR 1 "1 April 2006"
.SH NAME
TIMEXDR \- Timex Data Recorder control program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B timexdr [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B timexdr
is utility that can download data from the Timex Data Recorder device.
This device records heart rate monitor (HRM) and/or position data (GPS)
transmitted from Timex Bodylink HRM and GPS sensors.
.P
Stored data are printed to the standard output (STDOUT) by default (see
option -f/--file for more details). 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a, --all-sessions
Get data from all sessions. If both -a and -e options are used, the
last one will be the one that's used.
.TP
.B \-c, --clear-eeprom
Clear the EEPROM memory (delete all recorded sessions). Memory is cleared
after data are displayed if requested by the -a or -e options. 
.TP
.B \-d NUM, --days=NUM
Print only sessions recorded within the last NUM days. If NUM is omitted or
zero, today's sessions are printed.
.TP
.B \-e, --eeprom-dump
Dump the EEPROM memory content. If both -a and -e options are used, the
last one will be the one that's used. 
.TP
.B \-f, --file
Write the session data into file(s) named YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS-HHMMSS.{gps,hrm}
where the time corresponds to the session start and stop times. The files 
are placed in the working directory.
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Display usage information.
.TP
.B \-i, --info
Display information about the device: Firmware version, memory capacity 
and usage, etc.
.TP
.B \-m, --miles
Display distance and speed in miles and mph, respectively. The default
units are kilometers and kph.
.TP
.B \-t, --time-sync
Synchronize device's clock with system local time.
.TP
.B \-v NUM, --verbose=NUM
Increase the verbosity of program output for higher NUM. Roughly speaking, 
NUM<5 provides more information about the program actions then without this
option, while higher NUM values show also some debugging information. If NUM 
is ommitted, value 1 is assumed.
.TP
.B \-V, --version
Print the program version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
For all examples below, it will be assumed that the Timex Data Recorder
device is connected to the USB bus of the machine.
.PP
To display all stored sessions:
.PP
    timexdr \-a
.PP
To store EEPROM memory content in a file eeprom.log:
.PP
    timexdr \-e > eeprom.log
.PP
To display EEPROM memory content and store it in a file eeprom.log:
.PP
    timexdr \-e | tee eeprom.log
.PP
To synchronize device's clock with system local time:
.PP
    timexdr \-t
.PP
To display all stored session data, synchronize the clock, and clear the 
EEPROM memory afterwards:
.PP
    timexdr \-c \-a \-t
.PP
To display only sessions recorded today and yesterday:
.PP
    timexdr \-d1
.PP
Download only today's session(s) and store them in files 
YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS-HHMMSS.{gps,hrm}:
.PP
    timexdr \-d \-f
.PP
To store all recorded sessions in files YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS-HHMMSS.{gps,hrm}
in the working directory:
.PP
    timexdr \-a \-f
.SH FILES
The device is accessed using either udev or usbfs. Each USB device has one
file /dev/bus/usb/BBB/DDD and/or /proc/bus/usb/BBB/DDD depending whether
udev or usbfs is installed. The udev device node is used when both udev
and usbfs are present. The BBB indicates the bus number while 
the DDD indicates the device address on that bus. Both numbers are assigned
automatically.
.TP
.B /dev/bus/usb/BBB/DDD
This file (device node) is provided automatically by udev. However, udev
configurations vary and a node of a different name can be created.
.TP 
.B /proc/bus/usb/BBB/DDD
If /proc/bus/usb appears empty, and a host controller driver has been
loaded, then you need to mount the usbfs filesystem. Issue the command 
(as root):
.IP
	mount -t usbfs none /proc/bus/usb
.IP
or as a more permanent alternative method add 
.IP
	usbfs /proc/bus/usb usbfs defaults 0 0
.IP
to /etc/fstab. The usbfs support has to be compiled in the kernel.
.SH NOTES
The utility is installed SETUID and the root privileges are dropped 
immediately after the device is initialized. 
.SH BUGS
Please report them to the author. 
.SH AUTHOR
timexdr was written by Jan Merka <merka@highsphere.net>. 
